Israel has said that one of its goals in
this campaign in Gaza is to destroy
Hamas well now the head of Israel's
domestic intelligence service has stated
that it will eliminate Hamas leaders
around the world here's a look at what
Israel has done so far and how difficult
its stated goal might
be fighting raging in southern Gaza
Israel has expanded its campaign against
Hamas while operations continue in the
north even after Israel claimed nearly a
month ago that Hamas had lost control
there before the truce in Northern Gaza
we dismantled two Hamas brigades not
completely yet we are still working
inside to secure our accomplishments and
to strike more
Battalion Israel says it has killed
thousands of Hamas Fighters but Hamas
was estimated to have about 30,000
Fighters before the war started and many
of them are still around
Israel also says it has destroyed
hundreds of Hamas tunnels as seen in
this video released by the IDF but Hamas
has had 16 years in Gaza to build an
extensive network that runs the entire
length of the territory which will make
it extremely difficult to eliminate them
all Israel has targeted many Hamas
commanders Israeli newspaper yed yot
published images of a deck of playing
cards showing top leaders including F
sinow and Military head Muhammad de
distributed amongst Israeli soldiers but
the senior leadership is thought to
still be alive and commanding the group
from can Yunis that's also where the
most hostages are believed to be kept as
human
Shields Hamas also has officials far
beyond Gaza in the West Bank and in
Lebanon where they are increasingly
allied with other jihadist movements the
political leadership lives in Qatar and
there are fundraising officials in
Turkey as well the campaign in Gaza has
also cost an estimated 15,000
Palestinians their lives so far
worldwide support for the Palestinian
cause has spread far beyond the region
the growing number of Civilian
casualties and the dire humanitarian
crisis will very likely play into
hamas's hands making the group's
Resurgence even more likely possibly
dragging the war out for years beyond
all these challenges it's far from Clear
what Israel would do if it did defeat
Hamas Israel hasn't presented a plan for
how it or anyone else would run
Gaza so Israel trying to reach mission
accomplished to talk about that I'm
joined Now by GTO Steinberg he's a
senior fellow with the German Institute
for international and security Affairs
GTO it's good to see you again do you
think fully eliminating Hamas with
military means is that realistic is it
possible
well I think it is possible to eliminate
Hamas um and that means um catching or
killing most of the leadership in the
Gaza Strip and killing or catching most
of the fighters of Hamas in the Gaza
Strip but fully eliminating it uh to the
extent that it can't uh fight the
Israelis once the war is over I think
that's impossible simply because Hamas
is not only a militant organization
of some 20 to 30,000 Fighters it is also
a social movement with a mass following
in the Gaza Strip and that will be the
problem the day this war stops yeah if
even if you take out all of the fighters
what about people who are sympathizers
with Hamas people who may not be willing
to pick up a gun but who would not be
sad to see others pick up a gun I mean
is is there any way to quantify those
people and those mindsets
well uh there has been WID widespread
support for Hamas in the Gaza Strip in
recent years um most likely the number
of supporters is between 20 and 30% of
the population uh that means somewhere
between 400 and 600,000 persons and the
problem the problem is Even If you
eliminate most of the uh the the Hamas
militant organization the organization
will be able to recruit among its
support base in the years to come so
what is needed is a fighting force that
is able to control the situation in the
Gaza Strip for months and years to come
and of course a polit political solution
in order to win at least parts of this
social base over and as it seems the
Israeli government has no clue what
might happen to the Gaza Strip after the
war uh against Hamas is one the French
President Emanuel macron says that the
complete elimination of the Palestinian
terrorist group Hamas would take a
decade what kind of time frame do you
think we are looking at here I mean are
we talking about decades instead of
years or
months no no I think uh the French
president said this for political
reasons it is of course um possible to
eliminate the organization but if
impossible to eliminate uh all the Hamas
fighters to eliminate the
organization uh will take another couple
of weeks perhaps a couple of months but
then the big problem as I already said
is uh how to win the peace uh and Israel
see doesn't seem to have any clue what
might happen afterwards as it seems uh
Israel is ready to reoccupy the Gaza
Strip that but that will mean that
remaining Hamas Fighters and new
recruits will fight the Israelis um out
of the Gaza underground it will be very
hard to control the situation in the
Gaza Strip against the will of the
population there you know if we compare
um the situation to to other countries
in the region or to to other conflicts
has such a massive military campaign
including the effect that it has on
civilians ever led to less extremism
less
radicalization well um some of these uh
some similar campaigns were successful
for example against uh the Islamic State
organization in mosul in 2017 or in raqa
in 20
20099 the destruction in the in the in
both of these cities was comparable to
what is happening right now uh in Gaza I
think one of the main differ differences
was that Isis or is was not a social
movement it was a militant organization
of some 20 30 40,000 Fighters and that
was it Hamas is a social movement with
mass support in the Gaza Strip and that
is the problem in the long run that's
not the problem for the coming months
milit the Israel might might clearly win
this war against Hamas but it's it will
be very hard to win the peace afterwards
it won't be any peace yeah that's right
win the peace and win the hearts and
minds of a lot of people Kido Steinberg
from the German Institute for
international and security Affairs G as
always we appreciate your time and your
analysis thank
you and for more on Israel's offensive
I'm very pleased to welcome Harel horf
head of the Middle Eastern network
analysis desk at Tel Aviv University
Welcome to DW thank you for your time
today Israel says that it wants to
eliminate Hamas is that a realistic
objective in your
opinion I think it is
realistic objective uh and I'll give you
several reasons for that first and
foremost we need to remember the Gaza
Strip is only 364 square kilometers
namely it's almost an island uh it's not
Lebanon it's not Iraq it's not
Afghanistan and any comparisons of that
sort just doesn't fit second uh we need
to understand how Hamas is built it's
not a an ordinary hierarchy of uh let's
say an army okay you have the chief of
staff and then you have the other
commanders beneath you no Hamas is what
we call a network organization namely it
is comprised by uh several even many uh
Power centers or hubs if you'd like uh
that are surrounded by by all sorts of
power sources uh that can be men that
can be areas that can be all sorts of of
of power sources that each each Power
Center like that can work almost
autonomously in other words or to make
it even more clearer I would say you
have H leaders such as sinir but you
also have Maran Isa and Muhammad de and
other prominent leaders including by the
way outside of of the Gaza Strip like is
Ania each of them has a a role in Kamas
and each of them is a power center now
once you remove enough or I would say a
critical mass of these power centers
either by anything that any measure that
Israel can take that will eventually
make the whole network collapse so on
the good side it could I just interrupt
you there because you've done a very
good job there of of describing Hamas
you've called it a network organization
you know it it as you say it's not just
an army but but you know the fact that
it is so complicated that it's an
ideology as well it's a set of ideas you
know obviously including the refusal to
accept a Jewish state so you know how
can this be eliminated from Gaza how can
it be easily
done well we we we know that any idea
first of all we need to differentiate
between an idea and an organization any
organization can be eliminated even the
most fearful one and we can think about
several examples from the history second
I would say even this even an idea can
be rooted out ER whether it is the the
the militant idea of Japan after the
second war or of course Nazi Germany
today we have the most two peaceful
countries in the world and and pacifist
any idea can be rooted out in the Middle
East we saw that with the nasserism for
example the idea sank after it was
proven as failed so we need to
differentiate between the two what we
are interested is in of course
eradicating the organization and as I
explain this is possible as well we just
need to get to a m a critical mass and
and and and to root out the idea will
take of course years but I think it
worth it for the sake of the two H
people
both Israelis and Palestinians
eventually because Hamas is really the
most the most negative player uh that
this area saw in the past 30 years and
if Israel is successful in getting rid
of this
organization it says Israel says Hamas
will not rule Gaza after this war if
that is the case can you tell us who
will then be in
charge first of all uh I must say it's
an excellent uh question because uh to
to be critical Visa the Israeli
government I don't think they talk about
a lot about it and it's not that they're
not planning I know for a fact they are
but I don't know maybe for political
reasons internal political reasons they
don't mention it enough but it is a
critical question and what I see and
what I hear from uh planning the day
after is first and foremost forget about
an Israeli governing of the area a civil
one it won't happen nobody in Israel
planed it what we will see is an an
Israeli military not even control but
ability to penetrate the the Gaza Strip
whenever it's necessary more or less
like what is happening today in the West
Bank uh to take care of immediate H
threats and in terms of civil civilian
matters I see uh uh an independent
Palestinian Administration assisted by
International of course International
the international Arena and you know
what I have a reason to be optimistic
about it as well I since 2014 I was
talking to many fundraisers okay for the
Gaza Strip and they told me you know
many good willing countries since 2014
namely protective Edge don't want to
invest money in the Gaza Strip so what I
think is that after Hamas will be
eradicated and eliminated people will or
people donor donor country like Japan
like Germany like the US will come back
and invest money in the Gaza Strip which
hopefully will be
peaceful you know in the long run har
from Tel Aviv University thanks so much
for your time
today thank you very
much